Here is a comprehensive breakdown of exactly what is inside your AI_Pipeline folder, how the AI functions, and how you actually run the code.

🧠 How the AI Works (The Core Concept)
The AI system is built to process tabular financial data (like stock prices, OHLCV data, or loan attributes) and predict future outcomes—specifically, whether a price will go UP or DOWN, or whether a borrower is a high or low risk.

It uses two primary mathematical approaches:

Tree-Based Machine Learning (XGBoost / Random Forest): Fast, highly accurate models perfect for raw tabular data and feature correlations.
Deep Learning (PyTorch - LSTM / MLP / Transformers): Neural networks designed to analyze sequences over time (e.g., looking at the past 60 days of market momentum to predict day 61).
📂 File Breakdown & Purpose
1. The Core Execution Files
solution.ipynb (The Main Engine)
What it does: This is the primary Jupyter Notebook where the entire pipeline is glued together. It loads the CSV/Parquet data, cleans it, trains the models, and evaluates their accuracy.
How it runs: You run this file cell-by-cell using Jupyter. As we discovered earlier, it currently contains Kaggle dataset paths (/kaggle/input/...) that need to be updated to point to your local DATASETS folder.
DATASETS/
What it does: Contains all your raw data (ZIP files, CSV files like Loan new datset.csv and bank.csv). This is the fuel for the AI.
.venv/
What it does: The isolated Python Virtual Environment containing all the installed libraries (torch, xgboost, pandas).
2. Data Preparation & Feature Engineering
df_squeezer.py
What it does: A memory optimization script. When dealing with millions of rows of financial data, RAM fills up quickly. This script automatically downsizes data types (e.g., converting a massive float64 to float16 if the numbers are small) to drastically reduce memory usage without losing information.
Préparation.py
What it does: Contains the make_sequences() function. It takes raw historical data and chops it into sliding windows of 60 days so the LSTM neural network can learn chronological patterns.
3. The AI Models (The "Brains")
These files are modular snippets defining the mathematical architecture of the AI. They are imported or copied into the main notebook to be trained:

LSTM.py
How it works: Defines a PyTorch Long Short-Term Memory neural network. It includes an Attention Mechanism (self.attn), allowing the AI to "focus" mathematically on the most volatile or important days within a 60-day window, ignoring the quiet days.
Transformer NLP.py
How it works: Defines a Transformer architecture. Originally built for text (NLP), Transformers use self-attention and are incredibly powerful at finding hidden relationships in time-series financial data.
XGBoost.py & Random Forest.py
How they work: Classic ensemble learning algorithms. They build hundreds of "Decision Trees" to classify risk. XGBoost is tuned to learn slowly (learning_rate=0.05) with heavy regularization to prevent it from memorizing the data (overfitting).
XGBoost + Random Forest.py
How it works: A hybrid file. It contains a build_features function that uses Technical Analysis (ta library) to calculate financial indicators (RSI, MACD, Bollinger Bands) from raw OHLCV prices before feeding them into XGBoost and Random Forest classifiers.
MLP.py
How it works: Defines a Multi-Layer Perceptron. A standard, fully connected "vanilla" neural network used for basic tabular data mapping.
4. The Training Logic
TRAINING.py
What it does: Contains the PyTorch training loop for the deep learning models.
How it works: It loops over the data for 100 epochs, uses BCELoss (Binary Cross Entropy) to calculate how "wrong" the AI's predictions are, and uses the Adam optimizer with a CosineAnnealingLR scheduler to mathematically tweak the AI's weights until it gets the answers right.
🚀 How to actually run it all:
Because we set up your environment earlier, the actual execution is straightforward:

Open your VS Code Terminal inside the ALGORISK/AlgoRiskAI folder.
Activate your virtual environment:
bash
.\AI_Pipeline\.venv\Scripts\activate
Start the Jupyter interface in your browser:
bash
jupyter notebook AI_Pipeline/solution.ipynb
Important Fix: In the first few code cells of the notebook, change the /kaggle/input/... paths to point to a file inside your DATASETS folder (like "AI_Pipeline/DATASETS/Loan new datset.csv").
Press Shift + Enter on each cell to load the data, build the features, and watch the AI train!